Title: Alice's Adventures in Wonderland

Author: Lewis Carroll

Contributor: Austin Dobson

Illustrator: Arthur Rackham

Release date: May 19, 2009 [eBook #28885]
                Most recently updated: January 5, 2021

Language: English

Credits: Produced by Jana Srna, Emmy and the Online Distributed
        Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
        produced from images generously made available by the
        University of Florida Digital Collections.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND ***




Produced by Jana Srna, Emmy and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by the
University of Florida Digital Collections.)











ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

[Illustration: "Alice"]

[Illustration:

          ALICE'S·ADVENTURES
          IN·WONDERLAND
          BY·LEWIS·CARROLL
          ILLUSTRATED·BY
          ARTHUR·RACKHAM

          WITH A PROEM BY AUSTIN DOBSON

          LONDON·WILLIAM·HEINEMANN
          NEW·YORK·DOUBLEDAY·PAGE·&·Co]

          PRINTED IN ENGLAND

          _'Tis two score years since CARROLL'S art,
             With topsy-turvy magic,
           Sent ALICE wondering through a part
             Half-comic and half-tragic._

          _Enchanting ALICE! Black-and-white
             Has made your deeds perennial;
           And naught save "Chaos and old Night"
             Can part you now from TENNIEL;_

          _But still you are a Type, and based
             In Truth, like LEAR and HAMLET;
           And Types may be re-draped to taste
             In cloth-of-gold or camlet._

          _Here comes afresh Costumier, then;
             That Taste may gain a wrinkle
           From him who drew with such deft pen
             The rags of RIP VAN WINKLE!_

                                   _AUSTIN DOBSON._



          All in the golden afternoon
            Full leisurely we glide;
          For both our oars, with little skill,
            By little arms are plied,
          While little hands make vain pretence
            Our wanderings to guide.

          Ah, cruel Three! In such an hour,
            Beneath such dreamy weather,
          To beg a tale of breath too weak
            To stir the tiniest feather!
          Yet what can one poor voice avail
            Against three tongues together?

          Imperious Prima flashes forth
            Her edict "to begin it"--
          In gentler tone Secunda hopes
            "There will be nonsense in it!"--
          While Tertia interrupts the tale
            Not _more_ than once a minute.

          Anon, to sudden silence won,
            In fancy they pursue
          The dream-child moving through a land
            Of wonders wild and new,
          In friendly chat with bird or beast--
            And half believe it true.

          And ever, as the story drained
            The wells of fancy dry.
          And faintly strove that weary one
            To put the subject by,
          "The rest next time--" "It _is_ next time!"
            The happy voices cry.

          Thus grew the tale of Wonderland:
            Thus slowly, one by one,
          Its quaint events were hammered out--
            And now the tale is done,
          And home we steer, a merry crew,
            Beneath the setting sun.

          Alice! a childish story take,
            And with a gentle hand
          Lay it where Childhood's dreams are twined
            In Memory's mystic band,
          Like pilgrim's wither'd wreath of flowers
            Pluck'd in a far-off land.



CONTENTS


                                                      PAGE

             I. DOWN THE RABBIT-HOLE                     1

            II. THE POOL OF TEARS                       13

           III. A CAUCUS-RACE AND A LONG TALE           24

            IV. THE RABBIT SENDS IN A LITTLE BILL       35

             V. ADVICE FROM A CATERPILLAR               49

            VI. PIG AND PEPPER                          64

           VII. A MAD TEA-PARTY                         82

          VIII. THE QUEEN'S CROQUET-GROUND              96

            IX. THE MOCK TURTLE'S STORY                111

             X. THE LOBSTER QUADRILLE                  126

            XI. WHO STOLE THE TARTS?                   139

           XII. ALICE'S EVIDENCE                       150




LIST OF THE PLATES


                                            _To face page_

          Alice                             _Frontispiece_

          The Pool of Tears                             22

          They all crowded round it panting and
             asking, "But who has won?"                 28

          "Why, Mary Ann, what are you doing out
             here?"                                     36

          Advice from a Caterpillar                     50

          An unusually large saucepan flew close
             by it, and very nearly carried it off      70

          It grunted again so violently that she
             looked down into its face in some alarm    74

          A Mad Tea-Party                               84

          The Queen turned angrily away from him
             and said to the Knave, "Turn them over"   100

          The Queen never left off quarrelling
             with the other players, and shouting
             "Off with his head!" or, "Off with her
             head!"                                    116

          The Mock Turtle drew a long breath and
             said, "That's very curious"               132

          Who stole the Tarts?                         140

          At this the whole pack rose up into the
             air, and came flying down upon her        158




CHAPTER I


[Sidenote: _Down the Rabbit-Hole_]

ALICE was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her
sister on the bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or
conversations in it, "and what is the use of a book," thought Alice,
"without pictures or conversations?"

So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for the
hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid) whether the pleasure of
making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and
picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran
close by her.

There was nothing so _very_ remarkable in that; nor did Alice think it
so _very_ much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself, "Oh
dear! Oh dear! I shall be too late!" (when she thought it over
afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this,
but at the time it all seemed quite natural); but when the Rabbit
actually _took a watch out of its waistcoat-pocket_, and looked at it,
and then hurried on, Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across
her mind that she had never before seen a rabbit with either a
waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to take out of it, and burning with
curiosity, she ran across the field after it, and was just in time to
see it pop down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering how
in the world she was to get out again.

The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then
dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think
about stopping herself before she found herself falling down what seemed
to be a very deep well.

[Illustration]

Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had
plenty of time as she went down to look about her, and to wonder what
was going to happen next. First, she tried to look down and make out
what she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything; then she
looked at the sides of the well and noticed that they were filled with
cupboards and book-shelves: here and there she saw maps and pictures
hung upon pegs. She took down a jar from one of the shelves as she
passed; it was labelled "ORANGE MARMALADE," but to her disappointment it
was empty; she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing
somebody underneath, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as
she fell past it.

"Well!" thought Alice to herself. "After such a fall as this, I shall
think nothing of tumbling down stairs! How brave they'll all think me at
home! Why, I wouldn't say anything about it, even if I fell off the top
of the house!" (Which was very likely true.)

Down, down, down. Would the fall _never_ come to an end? "I wonder how
many miles I've fallen by this time?" she said aloud. "I must be getting
somewhere near the centre of the earth. Let me see: that would be four
thousand miles down. I think--" (for, you see, Alice had learnt several
things of this sort in her lessons in the schoolroom, and though this
was not a _very_ good opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as
there was no one to listen to her, still it was good practice to say it
over) "--yes, that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what
Latitude or Longitude I've got to?" (Alice had no idea what Latitude
was, or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to
say.)

Presently she began again. "I wonder if I shall fall right _through_ the
earth! How funny it'll seem to come out among the people that walk with
their heads downwards! The Antipathies, I think--" (she was rather glad
there _was_ no one listening, this time, as it didn't sound at all the
right word) "--but I shall have to ask them what the name of the country
is, you know. Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?" (and she
tried to curtsey as 